Waters function well function is something that assigns value to other values but in general function
is just a relation between A and B which for every x may assigns exactly one from B and that x and y
are in this relation that is kind of mathematical definition of function.
But let's look at more kind of user friendly definition here.
I have function neth that x and so all the natural numbers and it returns returns some are so real number
and it is defined as is equal to x plus 1.
So it's kind of what this function returns and x is what this function takes.
So in general you get this equation.
Brentham sees x is equal to Y.
So for example f of free is equal to 4 y.
Well you are using this equation to compute the returned value and you want to compute.
And X is passed into this function.
And since I call this function with 3 I will be equal to free plus 1 so 4.
And if you call this function with 6 you will get 7.
So notice that for every x you pass into this function returns us exactly one value.
And now if you look at definition it says that for every x from I there is exactly 1 I from B.
And that's exactly what is happening in here.
We are passing 1 x and we are getting exactly 1.
So something like this cannot happen.
We can get to.
As a result of one X also we can get no I.
As a result of one next.
So for example if I have a function g that takes a real number and returns as either a real number and
it is defined as xy equals 1 divided by x that is is not a function here.
You can pause the video and try to figure out why the problem is that there is not.
I for every x.
So for example if I call this function with two i get 1 1/2 and that is OK if I call it with minus two
and minus.
And that is also fine.
But when I call this function with zero I get nothing.
Why.
Because you cannot divide by zero.
And if we look at the definition it says that for every x there must be exactly 1.
And here is not so this is not a function.
Now let's make even more user friendly definition here.
I will define sets like this.
So this is set A.
And this is said B.
And in set A We have some elements let's say 1 2 3 4 and 5 and instead B we have other elements like
a b c d.
So now if we have a function from A to B This function will kind of assign to every element from May
some other element in B.
Right.
So for example it can assign to a 1.
But the important thing is that this function needs to assign some value to every element for math.
So for example like this.
Notice that there is exactly one arrow from every element from set A to some element from said B.
So that is correct.
But if I have two arrows from some element in NE to some other element and B it is not a function because
B is are I and in a is R x.
So for one next we get two possible eyes and that can happen.
So this is not a function.
And also every element has to point to some element in B.
So if I get rid of this arrow f is not a function because it doesn't return nigh for every x.
I think this is pretty clear.
So let's look at some properties function can be injective and what that means.
Well there is no two arrows pointing to some element in B.
There is always one zero or none.
So for example function that is defined as xy is equal to x squared is not injective.
Why.
Because for example free and minus free will both result in 2 9.
So they are kind of two pointers pointing to night.
But for example function is equal to x plus two is injective.
Why.
Because there are no two access that will result into say my.
So if I write this definition kind of mathematically function a to b is injective went for every x 1
and x 2 from a.
So if x 1 is not equal to x to the return value is also not equal.
So f of x 1 is not equal to 4 x 2.
I hope this makes sense that a property is surjection and all that means well.
Function from A to B is surgical.
If there is no to every element in B.
So for every i from B existe X from a.
That and it is true that f of this X will result in two.
So for example the function from A to B where A contains 1 2 and B and B contains A and B is surjective
y well to every element in B leads and narrow and it is OK that to B leads to arrows.
The important thing is that there is at least one arrow to every element in the bad.
If for example a one would be in the relation with B instead of a.
This function would not be surjective because there is no arrow that leads us to a.
I think this makes sense also.
Function can be bijective and what that means well if function is bijective it is injective and surjective.
So this is pretty easy.
I hope this makes sense if you have any questions just ask and I will see you next time.